
# Vocabulary

> List of words and phrases that I hear or read that are not yet in my everyday lexicon.

- It may be worthwhile looking into spaced repetition for these words, but I am not too invested in expanding my lexicon just yet.
    - I am pre-emptively compiling this list so if one day I want to work on this I can.

## I don't know what it means.

- Decorum
    - Behaviour that is controlled, calm, and polite.
    - _The witness endured the lawyer’s badgering with remarkable decorum._

- Frivolity
    - lack of seriousness; lightheartedness.
    - _a night of fun and frivolity_

- Pageantry
    - elaborate display or ceremony.

- Minutiae
    - Minor detail
    - _Don't get bogged down with the minutiae of everyday life._    

## I have a vague idea of what it means but it's not fully registered in my brain.

- Come to pass
    - To happen. What is happening is the result of a course of events.
    - _I doubt if his promises will ever come to pass._

- Begrudgingly 
    - unwillingly, often because you have no choice.
    - _They are friendly, helpful and never act like they are begrudgingly helping you_

## I do have perfect understanding of the meaning, but it is not yet incorporated in my lexicon.

- Structural integrity
    - _The structural integrity of a burger is of utmost importance_
- Prodigious
    - Extremely great in ability, amount, or strength.
    - _She wrote a truly prodigious number of novels._
- Tether to reality / tether on reality.
- Burning a hole in one's pocket
    - Very eager to spend as soon as possible.
