
# Habit Dashboard

> **Implement your own version of Habit Dashboard**
> Due: 2021-07-11

## Context
- Stumbled upon [this](https://betterhumans.pub/draft-how-to-hack-your-brain-to-achieve-consistency-that-lasts-7f5fdc520d28) the other day
- It talks about the UI/UX of a analog habit tracking dashboard.
- I lack the way to track my habits in my current journaling setup and this looks something worth experimenting.

## Actionables

- [x] Read and take notes.
- [~] Implement the method in my own journaling setup.

## Notes
2021-07-04 14:43
- I never started this. Life got in my way.
- I probably should have done it back then when life was getting in my way in retrospect.
- This does look like something that can go along with [[deep work|ext.deep-work]], so I should do this soon.
- Let's keep this in our daily and carry over until it's done.
  - Giving myself a week to implement and start using it.

2021-07-10 20:54
- Thoughts while taking notes on [[ext.minimalist-journaling]]
  - It's easy to fall into the trap of continuously seeking for motivation on the Internet: binge watching talks, podcasts, etc. when you feel like you are not progressing towards your goal.
    - This is the comfort zone you want to be in: having the possibility of improving and continuously feeding yourself external motivation. Feeling optimistic about your goals but not executing / acting upon it.
  - The OS / UI analogy is interesting.
  - When it goes into the method, I lost interest. It's just another person's way to keep their habits.
    - It did look like the writer made it a fun system for them. Just not something I would do.
  - Drawing a square for each day does make sense. The human mind apparently works well when information is organized spacially.
  - What I got out of this is simple:
    - The visually appealing aspect of this method made it a fun thing to do for the writer. My way of tracking habits may not have to be this detailed, but I can definitely make it more fun and visually appealing in my notebook.

2021-07-10 21:32
- I don't know what I expected going into this. Ultimately everyone's method is different and I may have thought the visual aspect of this would imply that this method is great. I got some insights out of this but I most likely won't implement this to a tee.
