
# Productivity Retrospect

_as of 2021.03.14_

## Immediate tasks

- I have been using pen & paper for immediate daily tasks.
- Everything that goes on this physical note is actionable and relevant to that day.
- There is no future planning happening in this note.
- It is paramount that I have the next day's entry at least partially filled to function properly the next day
- Immediacy is the goal here, and every part of the equation is picked to better facilitate this.

### How
- Pocket sized notebook.
    - Refills with no actual cover for minimum `preciousness`.
    - Dotted grid to eliminate the need for a ruler.
- Three pen colors
    - Black for most normal entries
    - Red for marking
    - Blue for emphasis

### The good
- Having a tangible object in my pocket is better than having to remember to check an app or reaching for it in a bag
- Not being precious about the organization / structure is also contributing to the immediacy.

### The bad
- Over a period of time, some structure has arise from repeated entries.
    - e.g.) meal plans, daily wrap-up activities
    - It made this method a bit stale and I lost the immediacy / flow
        - easily get into mannerism all together
- In particularly busy days, I often forget to check the notebook even though it's always in my pocket.
- I can't write when I'm walking. At least not easily.
- No syncing. (It may be a good thing?)
- Juggling three pen colors is a bit cumbersome

### How to proceed

- Keep experimenting. Embrace structure if it comes naturally, but don't be hesistant to discard it when it's hindering the immediacy.
- Switch back to multi-colored pens and stick to it.
    - Added 4th color (green) for sequence/flow
- Try using the entire spread every day?
    - One for actionable items, one for scratch notes.
- Or maybe have different bullets a la BuJo (event, task, note, etc.)?

## Long-term meta planning

- These are strictly meta planning / self reflection methods I currently adopt.
- Daily(ish) diary
- Every evening I sit down and write a diary where I reflect on the day.
- This is a post-mortem report to myself about what I did well/wrong.
- Subjects vary day to day but I try to focus on how I felt (emotionally) first, and then go into the whats, what ifs and hows.

### How
- Physical notebook, larger size.
- Fountain pen, slow paced deliberate writing.
    - Pelican M200
    - Sailor Kiwa-Guro Black ink

### The good
- Emotionally, this is a way to acheive daily closure.
- Even if a particular day was subpar, I can improve by deliberately noting what I did wrong or what I can do better.
    - Facilitates incremental progress.
- I get to use my favorite fountain pen ;)

### The bad
- Sometimes I genuinely don't have something to reflect on, as some days are lighter and more relaxed.
    - This makes a `daily retrospect` semi-forced.
- If I am too busy or tired to sit down and reflect on my day, I miss a day and I might miss the next day... and the next day... and so on.
    - Consistency may be the key here.

### How to proceed
- Keep doing it. Consistently.
- Try to go back and reflect on the missed days if it hasn't been too long since.

## Building a knowledge base
- Non-actionable collection of information organized for future / ongoing use.

### How
- Dendron
- `Public` git repository
    - to facilitate `working with the garage door open`
- Also published as `cerebrarium.garden`

### The good
- Dendron itself
    - Hierarchical structure of notes
    - Built on top of VSCode.
    - Open source
    - Welcoming, passionate community of like-minded people to discuss various topics on knowledge base building.
- My use case
    - The tool can contain my train of thoughts.
    - It is very flexible and modular.
    - It has demostrated to me in a visible form that my interests are very wide but extremely unmanaged.

### The bad
- `Creation of note entries` count is significantly higher than `depth of note content`
    - This may be due to the fact that I am still in the phase of pruning my unorganized mess of a `knowledge base` I have in my head.
    - or just excited to find tooling that I am passionate about.
    - This is a painful illustration of how scattered and wide my interests were.
- The freedom that Dendron allows might be enabling me to keep making notes and fool myself that I am building a foundation, where in reality I am just doing shallow work.
    - I lack execution.
    - The empty node are my `dreams` and `ideals`, but not my `projects`.

### How to proceed
- Focus on quality, rather than quantity of notes.
- Do not pre-emptively create notes that you will never get to.
    - Unless you have specific/actionable plans to fill up that bucket.
- Go back and prune out the empty notes, or work on them if you can't bring yourself to do so.

## Mid-term actionable goals and projects
    - I don't have a good way to do this.

### How
- A dump-all `actionable` note in Dendron.
- Original plan:
    1. Add all actionable tasks into the inbox
    2. Chop the tasks down to bite-size chunks
    3. Move tasks into appropriate headings
    4. Pick from the list of actionables what you should do today
    5. Write that down in your physical daily note
    6. Do it
    7. At the end of the day (or when it is necessary), check what has been done
    8. Every Sunday afternoon, go through the list and clean it up.

### The good
- Not much. Did not work after a week or so trying.

### The bad
- With a lot of interests, it needed structure.
    - Quickly became a very unwieldy note that I seldom take care of.
- Not only did I not have an effective way of managing my `projects`, I lacked the motivation and force to execute.
    - Emotionally seeking a solid foundation where I can organize my projects.
    - Lack of said foundation discouraged actual execution of projects.
- I actively repelled the idea of adopting an existing project management strategy because it hasn't worked for me in the past with other toolings.
    - `didn't work`, as in, the tooling was in hindering me from implementing those strategies.
    - Due to this experience I have neglected the adoption of methods such as P.A.R.A
    - In reality, I haven't tried any of the method to it's full extent because I just didn't jive with the tools I used to implement those techniques.

### How to proceed
- Set up P.A.R.A within Dendron
- Do not try to find the perfect method. Just try one.
    - If P.A.R.A doesn't work out, find something else.

## Time-tracking

### How
- I do not track time at the moment, but I have tried a few conventional apps / pomodoro
- Not exactly tracking time, but if I only have a certain amount of time allocated for a task I use a physical timer.

### The good

### The bad
- Past attempts at time tracking were unsuccessful because:
    - deliberately recording the start / end of an activity kills the flow
    - it is a mental burden
    - time tracking itself... takes time away from the things I want to acheive
    - most of the apps lack immediacy when you have to constantly remind yourself to check your phone
    - I don't find the tracked data useful
    - simply tracking how long I spend on tasks cannot capture the quality of time spent
        - Sometimes the quantity gave me a false sense of acheivement
        
### How to proceed
- Time tracking is not for everyone. I for one do not require time tracking in neither my professional / personal life.
- What I need is some kind of indication of performance that I can use to evaluate how well my time is used everyday.
- Shamelessly stealing Kevin Lin's way of doing this:
    - 2 point scale of evaluation
        - 0 point: I have not spent time on the things I care at all
        - 1 point: I have spent a bit of time on the things I care
        - 2 point: I have spent a good amount of time on the things I care
- When doing a periodic retrospect of my days, refer to the daily noted `points` to evaluate how well I have performed in a certain window of time.
